AI: Kubeflow (#30)
SUSE/doc-suse-ai: tasks/kubeflow-accessing.adoc

:override-abstract!:
:override-title!:

:revdate: 2026-03-27
:page-revdate: {revdate}

[#kubeflow-accessing-portforward]
== Option A: Port-forward (local dev)

If NodePorts are not directly reachable use port-forward instead:

[source,bash,subs="+attributes"]
----
# Run in a separate terminal and keep it open
{prompt_user}kubectl port-forward svc/istio -n istio-system 8080:80
----

Navigate to \http://localhost:8080

[#kubeflow-accessing-nodeport]
== Option B: NodePort

The {istio} gateway Service is type `LoadBalancer` and always gets NodePorts assigned, even without a
load-balancer controller:

[source,bash]
----
NODE_IP=$(kubectl get nodes -o jsonpath='{.items[0].status.addresses[?(@.type=="InternalIP")].address}')
HTTP_PORT=$(kubectl get svc istio -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.port==80)].nodePort}')
echo "http://${NODE_IP}:${HTTP_PORT}"
----

[#kubeflow-accessing-external-ip]
== Option C: LoadBalancer external IP

If your cluster has MetalLB or a cloud load-balancer controller, the Service receives an external IP:

[source,bash,subs="+attributes"]
----
{prompt_user}kubectl get svc istio -n istio-system   # wait for EXTERNAL-IP
----

> Navigate to \http://<EXTERNAL-IP>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to \http://<EXTERNAL-IP>.
```

[TIP]
====

> No Helm values change is needed for options A, B, or C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No Helm values changes are needed for options A, B, or C.
```
